{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\cf1\f0\fs24\lang9\par
 \par
\b\fs26 1) Select Queries\par
 \b0 1. Display all departments from department table. \par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22  SELECT DNAME FROM DEPT;\par
DNAME\par
--------------\par
ACCOUNTING\par
RESEARCH\par
SALES\par
OPERATIONS\cf1\f0\fs24  \par

\pard\fs26 2. Display all employees from employee table. \par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 SELECT ENAME FROM EMP;\par
ENAME\par
----------\par
SMITH\par
ALLEN\par
WARD\par
JONES\par
MARTIN\par
BLAKE\par
CLARK\par
SCOTT\par
KING\par
TURNER\par
ADAMS\par
JAMES\par
FORD\par
MILLER\cf1\f0\fs24  \par

\pard\fs26 3. Select the employee in department 30. \cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1  SELECT ENAME FROM EMP WHERE DEPTNO=30;\par
ENAME\par
----------\par
ALLEN\par
WARD\par
MARTIN\par
BLAKE\par
TURNER\par
JAMES\par

\pard\cf1\f0\fs24  \par
\fs26 4. List the names, numbers and departmentno of all clerks. \cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 SELECT ENAME,EMPNUM,DEPTNO FROM EMP WHERE JOB='CLERK';\par
\par
ENAME          EMPNUM     DEPTNO\par
---------- ---------- ----------\par
SMITH            7369         20\par
ADAMS            7876         20\par
JAMES            7900         30\par
MILLER           7934         10\par

\pard\cf1\f0\fs24\par
 \par
\fs26 5. Find the depart numbers and the name of employee of all dept with Deptno greater or equal to 20. \cf0\f1\fs22\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1 SELECT DEPTNO,ENAME FROM EMP WHERE DEPTNO>=20;\par
    DEPTNO ENAME\par
---------- ----------\par
        20 SMITH\par
        30 ALLEN\par
        30 WARD\par
        20 JONES\par
        30 MARTIN\par
        30 BLAKE\par
        20 SCOTT\par
        30 TURNER\par
        20 ADAMS\par
        30 JAMES\par
        20 FORD\par

\pard\cf1\f0\fs26 6. Find the employees whose commission is greater than their salary. \par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 SELECT ENAME FROM EMP WHERE COMM>SAL;\par
ENAME\par
----------\par
MARTIN\cf1\f0\fs24\par

\pard\fs26 7. Find the employees whose commission is greater than 60 percent of their salary. \par
SELECT ENAME FROM EMP WHERE COMM>(SAL*0.6);\par
\par
ENAME\par
----------\par
MARTIN\par
\fs24\par
\fs26 8. Find the employee whose commission is greater than 50 percent of their salary. \par
SELECT ENAME FROM EMP WHERE COMM>(SAL*0.5);\par
\par
ENAME\par
----------\par
MARTIN\fs24\par
\par
\fs26 9. List the name, job and salary of all employees in dept 20 who earn more than 2000 \par
\par
 SELECT ENAME,JOB,SAL FROM EMP WHERE DEPTNO=20 AND SAL>2000;\par
ENAME      JOB              SAL\par
---------- --------- ----------\par
JONES      MANAGER         2975\par
SCOTT      ANALYST         3000\par
FORD       ANALYST         3000\par
\fs24\par
 \par
\fs26 10. Find all salesmen in dept 30 whose salary is greater than or equal to Rs. 1500. \par
\par
 SELECT ENAME FROM EMP WHERE DEPTNO=30 AND SAL>=1500 AND JOB='SALESMAN';\par
\par
ENAME\par
----------\par
ALLEN\par
TURNER\par
\fs24\par
 \par
\fs26 11. Find all the employees whose job is either a president or manager. \par
 SELECT ENAME FROM EMP WHERE JOB ='PRESIDENT' OR JOB='MANAGER';\par
\par
ENAME\par
----------\par
JONES\par
BLAKE\par
CLARK\par
KING\par
\fs24  \par
\fs26 12. Find all managers who are not in dept 30. \par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 SELECT ENAME FROM EMP WHERE JOB='MANAGER' AND DEPTNO !=30;\par
ENAME\par
----------\par
JONES\par
CLARK\cf1\f0\fs24\par

\pard\fs26 13. Find the details of all managers and clerks in dept 10. \par
SELECT * FROM EMP WHERE (JOB='MANAGER' OR JOB='CLERK') AND DEPTNO=10;\par
\par
    EMPNUM ENAME      JOB              MGR HIREDATE         SAL       COMM\par
---------- ---------- --------- ---------- --------- ---------- ----------\par
    DEPTNO\par
----------\par
      7782 CLARK      MANAGER         7839 09-JUN-81       2450\par
        10\par
\par
      7934 MILLER     CLERK           7782 23-JAN-82       1300\par
        10\par
\par
14. Find the details of all manager (in any dept) and all clerks in dept 10 \par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\tx8820       SELECT * FROM EMP WHERE JOB='MANAGER' OR JOB='CLERK' AND DEPTNO=10;\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1     EMPNUM ENAME      JOB              MGR HIREDATE         SAL       COMM\par
---------- ---------- --------- ---------- --------- ---------- ----------\par
    DEPTNO\par
----------\par
      7566 JONES      MANAGER         7839 02-APR-81       2975\par
        20\par
      7698 BLAKE      MANAGER         7839 01-MAY-81       2850\par
        30\par
      7782 CLARK      MANAGER         7839 09-JUN-81       2450\par
        10\par
    EMPNUM ENAME      JOB              MGR HIREDATE         SAL       COMM\par
---------- ---------- --------- ---------- --------- ---------- ----------\par
    DEPTNO\par
----------\par
      7934 MILLER     CLERK           7782 23-JAN-82       1300\par
        10\fs24\par

\pard  \par
\fs26 15. Find the details of all managers in dept 10 and all clerks in dept 20. \par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 SELECT * FROM EMP WHERE (DEPTNO=10 AND JOB='MANAGER') OR (DEPTNO=20 AND JOB='CLERK');\par
    EMPNUM ENAME      JOB              MGR HIREDATE         SAL       COMM\par
---------- ---------- --------- ---------- --------- ---------- ----------\par
    DEPTNO\par
----------\par
      7369 SMITH      CLERK           7902 17-DEC-80        800\par
        20\par
      7782 CLARK      MANAGER         7839 09-JUN-81       2450\par
        10\par
      7876 ADAMS      CLERK           7788 23-MAY-87       1100\par
        20\cf1\f0\fs24\par

\pard\fs26 16. Find all employees who are neither clerks nor manager but whose salary is greater than or equal to Rs. 2000. \par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 SELECT ENAME FROM EMP WHERE (JOB!='CLERK' AND JOB!='MANAGER') AND SAL>=2000; \par
ENAME\par
----------\par
SCOTT\par
KING\par
FORD\cf1\f0\fs24\par

\pard\fs26 17. Find the employees who earns between Rs. 1200 and Rs.1400. \par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 SELECT ENAME FROM EMP WHERE SAL BETWEEN 1200 AND 1400;\par
ENAME\par
----------\par
WARD\par
MARTIN\par
MILLER\cf1\f0\fs24  \par

\pard\fs26 18. Find the employees who are clerks, analysts or salesman. \par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 SELECT ENAME FROM EMP WHERE JOB='CLERK' OR JOB='ANALYST' OR JOB='SALESMAN';\par
ENAME\par
----------\par
SMITH\par
ALLEN\par
WARD\par
MARTIN\par
SCOTT\par
TURNER\par
ADAMS\par
JAMES\par
FORD\par
MILLER\cf1\f0\fs24\par

\pard\fs26 19. Find the employees who are not clerks, analyst or salesman. \par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 SELECT ENAME FROM EMP WHERE (JOB!='CLERK' AND JOB!='ANALYST' AND JOB!='SALESMAN');\par
ENAME\par
----------\par
JONES\par
BLAKE\par
CLARK\par
KING\cf1\f0\fs24\par

\pard\fs26 20. Find the employees who do not receive a commission i.e. commission is NULL. \par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22  SELECT ENAME FROM EMP WHERE COMM IS NULL;\par
ENAME\par
----------\par
SMITH\par
JONES\par
BLAKE\par
CLARK\par
SCOTT\par
KING\par
ADAMS\par
JAMES\par
FORD\par
MILLER\cf1\f0\fs24  \par

\pard\fs26 21. Find the employee whose commission is Rs. 0. \par
\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22 SELECT ENAME FROM EMP WHERE COMM=0;\par
ENAME\par
----------\par
TURNER\cf1\f0\fs24\par

\pard\fs26 22. Find the different jobs of the employees receiving commission. \par
SELECT JOB FROM EMP WHERE COMM IS NOT NULL AND COMM!=0;\par
\par
JOB\par
---------\par
SALESMAN\par
SALESMAN\par
SALESMAN\par
\par
\fs24\par
 \par
\fs26 23. Find all employees who do not receive a commission or whose Commission is less than Rs. 100. \par
SELECT JOB FROM EMP WHERE COMM IS NOT NULL OR COMM<100;\par
\par
JOB\par
---------\par
SALESMAN\par
SALESMAN\par
SALESMAN\par
SALESMAN\par
\fs24\par
 \par
\fs26 24. The employees who not receiving commission are entailed to Rs. 250, Show the net earnings of all employees. (find about \b nvl() ) \b0\par
\par
SELECT ENAME,SAL+NVL(NULL,250) "NRE" FROM EMP WHERE COMM IS NULL;\par
\par
ENAME             NRE\par
---------- ----------\par
SMITH            1050\par
JONES            3225\par
BLAKE            3100\par
CLARK            2700\par
SCOTT            3250\par
KING             5250\par
ADAMS            1350\par
JAMES            1200\par
FORD             3250\par
MILLER           1550\par
\fs24\par
 \par
\fs26 25. Find all employees whose total earnings are greater than Rs. 2000. \par
\par
SELECT ENAME FROM EMP WHERE SAL>2000;\par
\par
ENAME\par
----------\par
JONES\par
BLAKE\par
CLARK\par
SCOTT\par
KING\par
FORD\par
\fs24\par
 \par
\fs26 26. Find all employees whose names begin with m. \par
\par
SELECT ENAME FROM EMP WHERE ENAME LIKE 'M%';\par
\par
ENAME\par
----------\par
MARTIN\par
MILLER\par
\fs24\par
 \par
\fs26 27. Find all employees whose names end with m. \par
\par
SELECT ENAME FROM EMP WHERE ENAME LIKE '%M';\par
\par
no rows selected\par
\fs24\par
 \par
\fs26 28. Find all employees whose names contain the letter m. \par
\par
SELECT ENAME FROM EMP WHERE ENAME LIKE '%M%';\par
\par
ENAME\par
----------\par
SMITH\par
MARTIN\par
ADAMS\par
JAMES\par
MILLER\par
\fs24\par
 \par
\fs26 29. Find the employees whose names are 5 characters long and end with n. \par
\par
SELECT ENAME FROM EMP WHERE ENAME LIKE '____N';\par
\par
ENAME\par
----------\par
ALLEN\par
\fs24\par
 \par
\fs26 30. Find the employees who have the letter r as the third letter in their name. \par
\par
 SELECT ENAME FROM EMP WHERE ENAME LIKE '__R%';\par
\par
ENAME\par
----------\par
WARD\par
MARTIN\par
TURNER\par
FORD\par
\fs24\par
\b\fs26 2) Numeric, Character & Date Function \par
\b0 31. Find all employees hired in month of February (of any year). \par
SELECT ENAME,HIREDATE FROM EMP WHERE EXTRACT(MONTH FROM HIREDATE)=2;\par
\par
ENAME      HIREDATE\par
---------- ---------\par
ALLEN      20-FEB-81\par
WARD       22-FEB-81\par
\fs24\par
\fs26 32. Find all employees who were hired on the last day of the month. \par
\par
SELECT ENAME FROM EMP WHERE LAST_DAY(HIREDATE)=HIREDATE;\par
\par
no rows selected\par
\fs24\par
\fs26 33. Find the employees who were hired more than 12 years ago. \par
\par
 SELECT ENAME FROM EMP WHERE MONTHS_BETWEEN(SYSDATE,HIREDATE)>240;\par
\par
ENAME\par
----------\par
SMITH\par
ALLEN\par
WARD\par
JONES\par
MARTIN\par
BLAKE\par
CLARK\par
SCOTT\par
KING\par
TURNER\par
ADAMS\par
JAMES\par
FORD\par
MILLER\par
\fs24\par
\fs26 34. Find the managers hired in the year 2007. \par
 SELECT ENAME FROM EMP WHERE EXTRACT(YEAR FROM HIREDATE)=2007 AND JOB='MANAGER';\par
\par
no rows selected\par
\fs24\par
\fs26 35. Display the names and the jobs of all employees, separated by ','(comma). For example \fs24 (smith, clerk). \par
\par
\fs26   SELECT ENAME ||','|| JOB FROM EMP;\par
\par
ENAME||','||JOB\par
--------------------\par
SMITH,CLERK\par
ALLEN,SALESMAN\par
WARD,SALESMAN\par
JONES,MANAGER\par
MARTIN,SALESMAN\par
BLAKE,MANAGER\par
CLARK,MANAGER\par
SCOTT,ANALYST\par
KING,PRESIDENT\par
TURNER,SALESMAN\par
ADAMS,CLERK\par
\par
ENAME||','||JOB\par
--------------------\par
JAMES,CLERK\par
FORD,ANALYST\par
MILLER,CLERK\par
\fs24\par
\fs26 36. Display the names of all employees with the initial letter only in capitals. \par
 SELECT initcap(ENAME) FROM EMP;\par
\par
INITCAP(EN\par
----------\par
Smith\par
Allen\par
Ward\par
Jones\par
Martin\par
Blake\par
Clark\par
Scott\par
King\par
Turner\par
Adams\par
\par
INITCAP(EN\par
----------\par
James\par
Ford\par
Miller\par
\par
\fs24\par
\fs26 37. Display the names of all employees, right aligning them to 15 characters. \par
SELECT ENAME,LPAD(ENAME, 15,' ') FROM EMP;\par
\par
ENAME      LPAD(ENAME,15,'')\par
---------- ------------------------------------------------------------\par
SMITH                SMITH\par
ALLEN                ALLEN\par
WARD                  WARD\par
JONES                JONES\par
MARTIN              MARTIN\par
BLAKE                BLAKE\par
CLARK                CLARK\par
SCOTT                SCOTT\par
KING                  KING\par
TURNER              TURNER\par
ADAMS                ADAMS\par
\par
ENAME      LPAD(ENAME,15,'')\par
---------- ------------------------------------------------------------\par
JAMES                JAMES\par
FORD                  FORD\par
MILLER              MILLER\par
\fs24\par
\fs26 38. Display the names of all employees, padding them to right up-to 15 characters with '-'. \par
\par
 SELECT ENAME,LPAD(ENAME, 15,'-') FROM EMP;\par
\par
ENAME      LPAD(ENAME,15,'-')\par
---------- ------------------------------------------------------------\par
SMITH      ----------SMITH\par
ALLEN      ----------ALLEN\par
WARD       -----------WARD\par
JONES      ----------JONES\par
MARTIN     ---------MARTIN\par
BLAKE      ----------BLAKE\par
CLARK      ----------CLARK\par
SCOTT      ----------SCOTT\par
KING       -----------KING\par
TURNER     ---------TURNER\par
ADAMS      ----------ADAMS\par
\par
ENAME      LPAD(ENAME,15,'-')\par
---------- ------------------------------------------------------------\par
JAMES      ----------JAMES\par
FORD       -----------FORD\par
MILLER     ---------MILLER\par
\fs24\par
\fs26 39. Display the length of the name of all employees. \par
SELECT ENAME,LENGTH(ENAME) FROM EMP;\par
\par
ENAME      LENGTH(ENAME)\par
---------- -------------\par
SMITH                  5\par
ALLEN                  5\par
WARD                   4\par
JONES                  5\par
MARTIN                 6\par
BLAKE                  5\par
CLARK                  5\par
SCOTT                  5\par
KING                   4\par
TURNER                 6\par
ADAMS                  5\par
\par
ENAME      LENGTH(ENAME)\par
---------- -------------\par
JAMES                  5\par
FORD                   4\par
MILLER                 6\par
\fs24\par
\fs26 40. Display the names of all employees centering them with 20 characters. \par
\par
\par
\fs24\par
\fs26 41. Display the names of all employees without any leading 'a'. \par
\par
SELECT TRIM(LEADING 'A' FROM ENAME) FROM EMP;\par
\par
TRIM(LEADI\par
----------\par
SMITH\par
LLEN\par
WARD\par
JONES\par
MARTIN\par
BLAKE\par
CLARK\par
SCOTT\par
KING\par
TURNER\par
DAMS\par
\par
TRIM(LEADI\par
----------\par
JAMES\par
FORD\par
MILLER\par
\fs24\par
\fs26 42. Display the names of all employees without any trailing 'r'. \par
\par
 SELECT TRIM(TRAILING 'R' FROM ENAME) FROM EMP;\par
\par
TRIM(TRAIL\par
----------\par
SMITH\par
ALLEN\par
WARD\par
JONES\par
MARTIN\par
BLAKE\par
CLARK\par
SCOTT\par
KING\par
TURNE\par
ADAMS\par
\par
TRIM(TRAIL\par
----------\par
JAMES\par
FORD\par
MILLE\par
\fs24\par
\fs26 43. Show the first three characters of the names of all employees. \par
\par
SELECT SUBSTR(ENAME,1,3) FROM EMP;\par
\par
SUBSTR(ENAME\par
------------\par
SMI\par
ALL\par
WAR\par
JON\par
MAR\par
BLA\par
CLA\par
SCO\par
KIN\par
TUR\par
ADA\par
\par
SUBSTR(ENAME\par
------------\par
JAM\par
FOR\par
MIL\par
\fs24\par
\fs26 44. Show the last three characters of the names of all employees. \par
\par
SELECT SUBSTR(ENAME,-3) FROM EMP;\par
\par
SUBSTR(ENAME\par
------------\par
ITH\par
LEN\par
ARD\par
NES\par
TIN\par
AKE\par
ARK\par
OTT\par
ING\par
NER\par
AMS\par
\par
SUBSTR(ENAME\par
------------\par
MES\par
ORD\par
LER\par
\fs24\par
\fs26 45. Display the names of all employees replacing any 'a' with 'e'. \par
\par
SELECT REPLACE (ENAME,'A','E') FROM EMP;\par
\par
REPLACE(EN\par
----------\par
SMITH\par
ELLEN\par
WERD\par
JONES\par
MERTIN\par
BLEKE\par
CLERK\par
SCOTT\par
KING\par
TURNER\par
EDEMS\par
\par
REPLACE(EN\par
----------\par
JEMES\par
FORD\par
MILLER\par
\fs24\par
\fs26 46. Display the names of all employees and the position at which the string 'ar' occurs in the name. \par
SELECT ENAME, INSTR(ENAME,'AR') FROM EMP;\par
\par
ENAME      INSTR(ENAME,'AR')\par
---------- -----------------\par
SMITH                      0\par
ALLEN                      0\par
WARD                       2\par
JONES                      0\par
MARTIN                     2\par
BLAKE                      0\par
CLARK                      3\par
SCOTT                      0\par
KING                       0\par
TURNER                     0\par
ADAMS                      0\par
\par
ENAME      INSTR(ENAME,'AR')\par
---------- -----------------\par
JAMES                      0\par
FORD                       0\par
MILLER                     0\par
\fs24\par
\fs26 47. Show the salary of all employees rounding it to the nearest Rs. 1000. For example (3790 will be 4000) \par
\par
SELECT ENAME,ROUND (SAL,-3)"ROUND SAL" FROM EMP;\par
\par
ENAME       ROUND SAL\par
---------- ----------\par
SMITH            1000\par
ALLEN            2000\par
WARD             1000\par
JONES            3000\par
MARTIN           1000\par
BLAKE            3000\par
CLARK            2000\par
SCOTT            3000\par
KING             5000\par
TURNER           2000\par
ADAMS            1000\par
\par
ENAME       ROUND SAL\par
---------- ----------\par
JAMES            1000\par
FORD             3000\par
MILLER           1000\par
\fs24\par
\fs26 48. Show the daily salary of all employees assuming a month has 30 days. \par
\par
SELECT ENAME,ROUND(SAL/30)"DAILY SALARY" FROM EMP;\par
\par
ENAME      DAILY SALARY\par
---------- ------------\par
SMITH                27\par
ALLEN                53\par
WARD                 42\par
JONES                99\par
MARTIN               42\par
BLAKE                95\par
CLARK                82\par
SCOTT               100\par
KING                167\par
TURNER               50\par
ADAMS                37\par
\par
ENAME      DAILY SALARY\par
---------- ------------\par
JAMES                32\par
FORD                100\par
MILLER               43\par
\fs24\par
\fs26 49. Display the name of all employees, and their bonus. Assume each Employee gets a bonus of 20 percent of his salary subject to the Maximum of Rs. 500. \par
SELECT ENAME, 0.2*SAL"BONUS" FROM EMP WHERE 0.2*SAL<=500;\par
\par
ENAME           BONUS\par
---------- ----------\par
SMITH             160\par
ALLEN             320\par
WARD              250\par
MARTIN            250\par
CLARK             490\par
TURNER            300\par
ADAMS             220\par
JAMES             190\par
MILLER            260\par
\fs24\par
\fs26 50. Display the name of all employees, and their bonus. Assume each employee gets a bonus of 20 percent of his salary subject to the Maximum of Rs. 200. \par
\par
 SELECT ENAME, 0.2*SAL"BONUS" FROM EMP WHERE 0.2*SAL<=200;\par
\par
ENAME           BONUS\par
---------- ----------\par
SMITH             160\par
JAMES             190\par
\fs24\par
\fs26 52. For each employee display the number of months passed since the Employee joined the company. \par
SELECT ENAME ,(SYSDATE-HIREDATE)/30 AS "NO OF MONTHS" FROM EMP;\par
\par
ENAME      NO OF MONTHS\par
---------- ------------\par
SMITH        461.189353\par
ALLEN        459.022686\par
WARD          458.95602\par
JONES         457.65602\par
MARTIN       451.689353\par
BLAKE        456.689353\par
CLARK        455.389353\par
SCOTT         384.05602\par
KING         450.022686\par
TURNER        452.35602\par
ADAMS        382.922686\par
\par
ENAME      NO OF MONTHS\par
---------- ------------\par
JAMES        449.489353\par
FORD         449.489353\par
MILLER       447.789353\par
\fs24\par
\b\fs26 3) Ordering by Queries\par
 \b0 55. Display the details of all employees, sorted on the names. \par
\par
SELECT *FROM EMP ORDER BY ENAME;\par
\par
    EMPNUM ENAME      JOB              MGR HIREDATE         SAL       COMM\par
---------- ---------- --------- ---------- --------- ---------- ----------\par
    DEPTNO\par
----------\par
      7876 ADAMS      CLERK           7788 23-MAY-87       1100\par
        20\par
\par
      7499 ALLEN      SALESMAN        7698 20-FEB-81       1600        300\par
        30\par
\par
      7698 BLAKE      MANAGER         7839 01-MAY-81       2850\par
        30\par
\par
\par
    EMPNUM ENAME      JOB              MGR HIREDATE         SAL       COMM\par
---------- ---------- --------- ---------- --------- ---------- ----------\par
    DEPTNO\par
----------\par
      7782 CLARK      MANAGER         7839 09-JUN-81       2450\par
        10\par
\par
      7902 FORD       ANALYST         7566 03-DEC-81       3000\par
        20\par
\par
      7900 JAMES      CLERK           7698 03-DEC-81        950\par
        30\par
\par
\par
    EMPNUM ENAME      JOB              MGR HIREDATE         SAL       COMM\par
---------- ---------- --------- ---------- --------- ---------- ----------\par
    DEPTNO\par
----------\par
      7566 JONES      MANAGER         7839 02-APR-81       2975\par
        20\par
\par
      7839 KING       PRESIDENT            17-NOV-81       5000\par
        10\par
\par
      7654 MARTIN     SALESMAN        7698 28-SEP-81       1250       1400\par
        30\par
\par
\par
    EMPNUM ENAME      JOB              MGR HIREDATE         SAL       COMM\par
---------- ---------- --------- ---------- --------- ---------- ----------\par
    DEPTNO\par
----------\par
      7934 MILLER     CLERK           7782 23-JAN-82       1300\par
        10\par
\par
      7788 SCOTT      ANALYST         7566 19-APR-87       3000\par
        20\par
\par
      7369 SMITH      CLERK           7902 17-DEC-80        800\par
        20\par
\par
\par
    EMPNUM ENAME      JOB              MGR HIREDATE         SAL       COMM\par
---------- ---------- --------- ---------- --------- ---------- ----------\par
    DEPTNO\par
----------\par
      7844 TURNER     SALESMAN        7698 08-SEP-81       1500          0\par
        30\par
\par
      7521 WARD       SALESMAN        7698 22-FEB-81       1250        500\par
        30\par
\fs24\par
\fs26 56. Display the name of all employees, based on their tenure, with the oldest employee coming first. \par
\par
SELECT ENAME FROM EMP ORDER BY HIREDATE;\par
\par
ENAME\par
----------\par
SMITH\par
ALLEN\par
WARD\par
JONES\par
BLAKE\par
CLARK\par
TURNER\par
MARTIN\par
KING\par
JAMES\par
FORD\par
\par
ENAME\par
----------\par
MILLER\par
SCOTT\par
ADAMS\par
\fs24\par
\fs26 57. Display the names, job and salary of all employees sorted on jobs and Salary. \par
\par
SELECT ENAME,JOB,SAL FROM EMP ORDER BY JOB,SAL;\par
\par
ENAME      JOB              SAL\par
---------- --------- ----------\par
FORD       ANALYST         3000\par
SCOTT      ANALYST         3000\par
SMITH      CLERK            800\par
JAMES      CLERK            950\par
ADAMS      CLERK           1100\par
MILLER     CLERK           1300\par
CLARK      MANAGER         2450\par
BLAKE      MANAGER         2850\par
JONES      MANAGER         2975\par
KING       PRESIDENT       5000\par
MARTIN     SALESMAN        1250\par
\par
ENAME      JOB              SAL\par
---------- --------- ----------\par
WARD       SALESMAN        1250\par
TURNER     SALESMAN        1500\par
ALLEN      SALESMAN        1600\par
\fs24\par
\fs26 58. Display the names, job and salary of all employees, sorted on jobs and within job, sorted on the descending order of salary. \par
\par
 SELECT ENAME,JOB,SAL FROM EMP ORDER BY JOB,SAL DESC;\par
\par
ENAME      JOB              SAL\par
---------- --------- ----------\par
FORD       ANALYST         3000\par
SCOTT      ANALYST         3000\par
MILLER     CLERK           1300\par
ADAMS      CLERK           1100\par
JAMES      CLERK            950\par
SMITH      CLERK            800\par
JONES      MANAGER         2975\par
BLAKE      MANAGER         2850\par
CLARK      MANAGER         2450\par
KING       PRESIDENT       5000\par
ALLEN      SALESMAN        1600\par
\par
ENAME      JOB              SAL\par
---------- --------- ----------\par
TURNER     SALESMAN        1500\par
MARTIN     SALESMAN        1250\par
WARD       SALESMAN        1250\par
\fs24\par
\fs26 59. Display the names, job and salary of all employees, sorted on Descending order of job and within job, sorted on the descending order of salary. \par
\par
SELECT ENAME,JOB,SAL FROM EMP ORDER BY JOB DESC,SAL DESC;\par
\par
ENAME      JOB              SAL\par
---------- --------- ----------\par
ALLEN      SALESMAN        1600\par
TURNER     SALESMAN        1500\par
WARD       SALESMAN        1250\par
MARTIN     SALESMAN        1250\par
KING       PRESIDENT       5000\par
JONES      MANAGER         2975\par
BLAKE      MANAGER         2850\par
CLARK      MANAGER         2450\par
MILLER     CLERK           1300\par
ADAMS      CLERK           1100\par
JAMES      CLERK            950\par
\par
ENAME      JOB              SAL\par
---------- --------- ----------\par
SMITH      CLERK            800\par
FORD       ANALYST         3000\par
SCOTT      ANALYST         3000\par
\fs24\par
\fs26 60. Display the name, month and year of all employees, sorted on the month of their hire date irrespective of the year. \par
\par
 SELECT ENAME,to_char(HIREDATE,'MM') AS MONTH, to_char(HIREDATE,'YY') AS YEAR FROM EMP ORDER BY to_char(HIREDATE,'MM');\par
\par
ENAME      MO YE\par
---------- -- --\par
MILLER     01 82\par
ALLEN      02 81\par
WARD       02 81\par
JONES      04 81\par
SCOTT      04 87\par
ADAMS      05 87\par
BLAKE      05 81\par
CLARK      06 81\par
TURNER     09 81\par
MARTIN     09 81\par
KING       11 81\par
\par
ENAME      MO YE\par
---------- -- --\par
SMITH      12 80\par
JAMES      12 81\par
FORD       12 81\par
\fs24\par
\fs26 61. Display the name, month and year of joining of all employees, sorted on the month of their hire date, and within that on the year, with the earliest year appearing first. \par
\par
 SELECT ENAME,to_char(HIREDATE,'MM') AS MONTH, to_char(HIREDATE,'YY') AS YEAR FROM EMP ORDER BY to_char(HIREDATE,'MM');\par
\par
ENAME      MO YE\par
---------- -- --\par
MILLER     01 82\par
ALLEN      02 81\par
WARD       02 81\par
JONES      04 81\par
SCOTT      04 87\par
ADAMS      05 87\par
BLAKE      05 81\par
CLARK      06 81\par
TURNER     09 81\par
MARTIN     09 81\par
KING       11 81\par
\par
ENAME      MO YE\par
---------- -- --\par
SMITH      12 80\par
JAMES      12 81\par
FORD       12 81\par
\fs24\par
\fs26\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\cf0\f1\fs22\par
}
 